apartment did you have any rugs no bare floors what
about throw rugs what about curtains well
curtains we made out of i made them out of sheets you
know just cut them up that i think the color sheets
came up or did my mother dye those i don't remember i
know she gave us curtains for the kitchen And I made
the others for the bedrooms. And we just did
improvise with whatever we could. And the kitchen
stove, how many burners? I think there were four
burners, but it was a small stove. But it had an
oven. Uh-huh. And your washing machine. yeah i had
i had a washing machine that we had that was ours an
old roller yeah but did it have rinse tubs or did you
use the no we used to sink they had deep sinks i guess
that's why they built them and then the you had a
solar a solar dryer out in the sun yes you had to hang
the clothes out in the sun where did where did what
advice did any of your neighbor friends give you as
you moved in did any of them Well, just said that we
had to be patient and loving and says, don't fuss at
your husband and try to make it easy. And we tried to
help each other and talk to each other about that.
And one of the funniest things, they laugh about
the introduction I had. When they came to welcome
me and all of that, it was late in the evening and I
had put some cabbage on to cook.
And I think I turned the fire low. But anyway, we
went out and sat on the grass, and pretty soon we
started smelling. Oh, what's burning, and what's
burning, and what's burning? And even the
students that were coming kind of late from the
library, it was a burn. And then all of a sudden,
down on me, I think it's my cabbage. I ran in there,
and they said, oh, what an introduction to the
neighborhood. I stunk about. And almost all of the
other couples were veterans. Were veterans. And
did most of them have children? Yes. Helen, the
Darings had one, and the Cantrells had one.
Lippincott had one. And we had one, which we were
the closest one. Of course, back of us lived Peter.
I can't think of their last name. But anyway, he
came and played with Robert was so funny. That wall
was so thin that at night Peter used to wake up and
say, Mama, Mama, and I'd jump out and go in to see
about Robert and he'd be sound asleep. But we could
hear everything. Coming through the wall. Did you
all begin to share things? Oh yes. We had to, mostly
the, Francis and Cantrell and Buddy, we became
good close friends, very close friends. And
Francis' cousin, Yay Larry, first cousin, was a
football player and a baseball player. That's how
we got in the games. And he liked Mexican food. So my
mother would send us corn tortillas and she'd send
us care packages, corn tortillas and beans and
rice. And so, and then one time that I went home I
brought the chili the red chili to make
enchiladas. And ground meat was what we could
afford. So we made it with peas and corn and
potatoes, anything we could put together. About
every two weeks, Francis and I, we would fix a
Mexican supper and we would have Ye Larry and my
brother Carlos, who was in school here, come over
and eat with us. And we had enchiladas and rice and
beans.
But we, of course, iced tea and we had a good time.
And like I said, that's the way we got into football
games and baseball games because. All right,
describe your impression when you first went to an
Aggie football game. Well, I had been before
because my brothers were here. At
that time, when we came to football games, I may
have been in elementary school when my brother was
here, or in junior high, when my first brother was
here. He graduated in 39.
They did all of this yelling and all of that. They
never sat down. So when Ralph came, I was already
used to all of that. Now where did, when you all went
to the games as a married couple, where did, were
you over in the student section? Uh huh. And did you
take Robert with you? Yes. And you stood up? We
stood up. And did married folks kiss after Aggie
touchdowns? Oh yes. Yes. Do you remember any
incidents, any special moments during that first
football season? No, let's see, I forget who was
the quarterback. Was it Bob Smith? No, he was a good
running back. Glenn Lippman. Glenn Lippman was a,
uh-huh. From where was he from? Anyway, all of
those, and C.J. Larry was a running back. And we got
the tickets and we'd go, you know, Francis and
myself and Ralph and Buddy and Carl, the little
boy, and Robert, our son. And I don't know whether
Ralph showed you the pictures of Carl and Robert.
We'd go to the games. And then when Eisenhower was
here,
That's Robert. Oh, how good, how good. That's
splendid. That was in 1951
when he was here. And this is Carl. And see, there's
Bonnie Lippincott and Robert and, no, that's
Susan Darin. Bonnie Lippincott, Susan Darin,
Robert and Carl. Eisenhower was here. Now what was
the purpose of his visit? He was a general and they
had... So he came... Yes. This is before he was
politicking. Yes. He came here as a general. And it
was cold. It must have been in February. I don't
have a date because this was out of the Houston
Post. I didn't cut out the date or the... And did you
go to see Eisenhower? Yeah, it was in the drill
field. The Corps was in review for him, and he was in
the reviewing stand. What was your impression of
him, of Eisenhower? Oh, I liked him. I thought he
was just a great man.
During that first year, what was a typical,
describe a typical class day routine for you and
your husband? You all got up about what time? Well,
we got up about 6.30 or 7, because Ralph had to be in
class by 8, and got up and fixed his breakfast, and
he got ready and left. What was a normal breakfast?
Oh, a normal breakfast, then we could get pullet
eggs. And my mother sometimes would send us bacon.
And it was just really toast and eggs. And I got my
mother, every time we went, because she'd send us a
lot of jelly and stuff that we had. And that was it,
and coffee. Or sometimes we had cereal. And then
when Robert got up, he always had oatmeal. and I
would feed him and I would eat with him. And then
Ralph would be off to class by eight. Before eight,
because he had classes at eight o'clock. And
either we stayed there and Robert would go on and
play with all the kids. They played by the side of
the house. And we'd just kind of watch them and we
had anything to do, well, we'd get done. And then it
was time for him to take a nap. Of course, Ralph
would come home for lunch. And if he had classes or a
lab in the afternoon, he would go. And if not, he'd
go to the library and study. And he would study at
home. And so we had to be quiet while they were
studying. And we just tried to keep each other
company, the wives. Then it was time for supper,
and we had our supper, and then the kids played a
little bit, and we'd sit around watching them
play, and the men would be studying. Time to go to
bed, and then the next day was the same routine.
What did you women do to relax? Well, I guess we took
naps. We played cards. um and that was about it we
just kind of visited with each other and played
cards and and took naps and we helped out when we if
one was sick or something we tried to help each
other because everybody was equally poor yes
everybody was getting the same paycheck there
were a few that were getting help from home maybe
almost all on the gi bill oh yes And rent was $30?
$30. Did that include utilities? Everything. $30
included the refrigerator and the stove and the
utilities. Oh, I forgot. Describe the air
conditioning system. Oh, we didn't have one. The
windows were where you could get a stick and go
outside and pull that flap up. and you know, tied
up. Of course it had the screen, but that was, we did
have a fan that my mother gave us, but that was all.
No air conditioning. So you had one fan? Mm-hmm. So
you could use it? In the kitchen or the hallway and
then in the bedroom. Right. Then let's make
believe that on a Saturday night you all wanted to
do something kind of special for entertainment.
What would you do? I think we may have gone to maybe
some picture shows, some movies, because we could
go to Guyon for 25 cents or 15 cents. And that's how
we got acquainted with Mr. Putty. And at the end of
the sophomore year when we were in Vet Village,
Ralph had gone all over the college looking for a
part-time job and couldn't get one because we were
getting the money. And so Mr. Putty, no, one of the
boys or something, one of the students that worked
there was going summer camp or something, and he
taught Ralph how to do the projector, and Mr. Putty
helped him out. And so when he had somebody out, he
would call on Ralph. to do that and I think he did
that the last two months, April and May of the
sophomore year when we were here. And then at the
end of May, Mr. Smith called him or wrote to him and
told him that he would like for him to come and take a
summer job so his employees could go on vacation
and he trusted Ralph take over. So we gave up the
apartment and we stored the furniture, I believe.
And we moved to to San Antonio and got a little
efficiency place and he worked and of course we
saved the money. And then we tried to get back into
Vet Village. They were getting ready to tear that
down. So they assigned us to College View. And we
moved into College View and his uncle had given him
a refrigerator. So we brought our own
refrigerator. And we set up in College View, we had
Lewis and Margaret Springer for our neighbors,
and Wallace and Irene Larson. They were
veterinary students, but we got real close with
them. And the Beige, Helen Beige and her husband.
And she had an automatic washing machine. her
family had given her an automatic washing machine
and by that time I had started working at Guyon
Hall. So I had a little bit of money and she would do
my laundry for 25 cents a load.
But it still had to be hung out. So she would do the
laundry and I would hang it out because I didn't
come to work till about one o'clock. The theater
wasn't open till then. So I came to work at one. So
she would do the laundry and I'd hang it up, and then
she would bring it in, because I worked till five
o'clock, and if somebody wanted to use the line or
the clothes were dry, we had to. So you worked every
afternoon? Every afternoon. What was your pay, do
you remember? I think I got
like 60 cents an hour. And what was your task? I was
the ticket, sold the tickets, the ticket sales
lady. So afternoon, not in the evening though? No,
in the afternoon. We were two. One week I worked the
evening from 1 to 5, and then the other would work
from 5 on. And then the next week we'd switch. I
would come in at 5 and she'd come in at 1, so that we
had the same thing. Who took care of Robert while
you were? Well, we had a lady in the next barrack
that did babysitting. And she kept Robert until
Ralph got home. And then, of course, when Ralph was
a senior was when Robert started school. We had to
pay for him to go to school because he wasn't quite
six. And he started at A&M Consolidated. And at
that time, I was having trouble with hemorrhoids.
And of course, we'd go home to Dr. Langster. Every
time we went home, he'd check us over, all three of
us, and gave us medication or samples or whatever
we needed. So I went to him. It was before
Thanksgiving. And in one of the hemorrhoids, I had
a little growth. And he was very concerned. And he
said, I know it's going to be a hardship on you all.
And, but he says, I need to do the surgery right
away, as soon as we can, because he didn't want, you
know, anything to happen, or he was concerned. So
we moved out of College View in November of 52, and I
went back to Beeville. And we stored our
furniture. My dad had built two bedrooms onto the
garage and a bathroom, but we weren't using one. I
think two of my brothers were still at home. They
were in high school, and they slept in one of the
bedrooms. So we stored our furniture there and
moved in with mother. And I had surgery. Dr.
Langston said, let's wait until after Christmas.
So I think I had surgery in January of 53. And
I got well, and of course I went to work for my dad. I
mean, I worked for dad in the office to help him out
until Ralph graduated. Now did you take Robert
home with you? Yes, I took Robert home. He had
started at A&M Consolidated, but then I took him
home and he went to school in Burklair with my
sister. My sister was teaching there. So he went to
school in Burklair his first year. Well, he went
here until November and then the rest of the year he
went. All right, during the years that you were
here, describe shopping in Bryan College
Station. Where'd you go grocery shopping? We went
to Safeway and to the Atlantic store, whichever
had the, we'd watch the sales, each one of them.
We'd get together, the wives get together, oh,
this is on sale at Atlantic, this is on sale at
Safeway. So really what we got was staples,
coffee, rice, beans, vermicelli. And they were
both downtown? Downtown, uh-huh. And we'd go into
Bryan and buy, and really, clothes, whenever I
went to Beeville, my mother would, you know, we'd
go buy clothes there. And my brother in Puerto Rico
had, he and his father-in-law had shoe stores all
over the island. So he would send me some name brand
shoes. Of course, they don't have this narrow
size, and I wear a, triple toe and quite him. But he
would send the name brand, maybe in a B, but he said,
take them to the store and he'd write, and they will
exchange them. And they did that. So he would send
me the shoe and he would send Ralph and Robert
shoes, of course they could wear them. But I
couldn't wear mine, but he would send the name
brand, and I'd take them into a shoe store in Bryan.
Where, if you needed something quickly, some kind
of groceries, was there any? We went to the, well,
when we were here, we went to the little store on.
The corner of what is now University in Texas?
Well, no, that was when we lived in Collegeview.
But there was one up here. You know where Brothers
are? Right in that area, what was the name of that
little grocery store? There was a barber shop. Oh,
you're saying at Southgate? Yeah, Southgate. No,
is it Southgate? Yes, yes, Southgate. That's
where the Little Grocery Store. And if we needed
something, we'd run over there and get it. When we
were in College View, we went to the Little Grocery
Store and if we ran out of something and last week we
had to have something, we could charge it. And then
at the first of the month, he knew that at the first
of the month all the veterans got paid. But we
learned to cook the ground meat with everything.
And, of course, sometimes we would get chicken
because they would sell the chickens here, well,
reasonable. Now, you said you went to the Baptist
church. You mentioned that you had, did you grow up
a Methodist? No, I grew up a Catholic. You grew up
Catholic. What about Ralph? Catholic. Okay. Why
Baptist? Well, when I went to live with Miss Hall,
He was a Baptist deacon and she was a Sunday school
teacher in the Baptist church. And they knew I came
from a Catholic. They never did ask me or anything,
but I would ask them if I could go with them. So I
really wasn't The reason we were not strong or
devout Catholics was because my mother married my
father who was a Methodist. Those Methodist
missionaries, his mother and father were
Methodists, and of course my father and his
sisters were Methodists. And my mother married a
Methodist. So when she married him, she was
excommunicated from the Catholic Church. And it
hurt my grandfather and grandmother very much
because my grandfather had built that Catholic
church in Berkeley and he was such a devout
Catholic and so was my grandmother. The priest ate
at her house on Sundays when he'd go in from Goliad
to Berkeley for Mass. But my mother could not
practice her religion. But my grandfather and
grandmother, being devout Catholics, they would
baptize. My father didn't object because we lived
next door to them. But we were not given the
Catholic training like catechism and all of that.
And so actually, when I went to live, we'd go to
Mass. We'd go to, we never did go to the catechism
classes. But my grandfather, in his last five
years of life, he had houses for rent there in
Berkeley. and there was this missionary that came
from the Assembly of God and established a little
church there with some families that were
dissatisfied with the priest and they were big
families like they had nine kids and there were
four families and each with nine or ten kids so that
made a good congregation and my and he I talked to my
grandfather for a long time. My grandfather was
converted into the Assembly of God Church about
four years before he died. And my grandmother kept
on being a good Catholic, but because of his
memory, it was so funny, she'd take us to Mass and
then at 9.45 we'd go to Sunday school at the
Assembly of God Church. And that's how I got that
Training. So when you all came here. We were both, I
had joined the Baptist Church like in 1940. Oh,
okay, so you were. 1944. You already were a
Baptist. Uh-huh. Okay. And when I married Ralph,
we married in the Baptist Church, and then we
dedicated Robert in the Baptist Church, and then
he joined about a year later. Describe this
congregation and what it was like to be a young
married couple in the First Baptist Church. Well,
there were a lot of student members there, and I
can't think of Dr. Richardson. Well, Dr. Brown was
the minister there, but they had gotten a new one
because there was so much controversy. They had
been kind of like dissatisfied with it. But I think
it was Dr. Rich that was the pastor then, and his
wife taught a Sunday school class of young women
that were, most of them were students. So I joined
that class, and Ralph joined a class, and of course
Robert was in Sunday school.
And Ralph was an usher, and sometimes I helped in
the nursery.
And we just had, I mean, we enjoyed. We couldn't
wait to Sunday to go to Sunday school. And Dr. Berry
was the superintendent of the Sunday schools. I
can remember him very well.
Miss Pugh was Robert's Sunday School class
teacher. Mrs. Marion Pugh. Marion Pugh's wife.
And then the summer of 52,
We didn't go to San Antonio, Ralph State to go to
summer school, and I helped with the Vacation Mile
School. I helped Miss Pugh with the Vacation Mile
School. And I remember we had Coach, Gail,
Stanky's twins in there, and they were horrible.
And that's about what we did, but in our family, my
father wouldn't, object to us being whatever.
Because I have a brother that's Episcopalian. I
have two brothers that are Presbyterians. I have a
brother that's a Baptist. And I think only two are
Catholic. No, just one is Catholic. Did anyone
ever tease you being Hispanic and Baptist? Did
anybody ever? Well they were all surprised and
they still are. You know I'm the librarian in a
little Catholic school. Of course, they have
changed a lot. I mean, they don't go to confession
anymore and they don't do a lot of things. And like I
told Sister, I said, it looks like I'm sitting in a
Baptist church. But when I went there and the other
teachers found out I was Baptist, did you become a
Baptist? What were your parents, you know? And
when I tell them about the recent experience, we
weren't brought up as devout Catholic was because
of my mother being excommunicated from the
Catholic Church. Of course, they don't do that
now, but at that time. Now, I haven't sensed in
anything you've said anybody teasing or doing
anything negative that you were Hispanic. No.
That you were fully accepted everywhere. No. And
as y'all are living in Vet Village and in College
View, did y'all ever think about stopping and
going back to San Antonio? No. So you never looked
back? No. Were there any semesters when the grades
were marginal? Oh, yes. Is that right? And
sometimes, you know, I knew he was having a hard
time because I had, you know, gone through junior
college and then University of Mexico, and I knew
how hard it was. And I knew he was worried about his
grandmother because she died when we were living
at Bed Village, and she raised him. And thinking
about his mother and not being in school for so
long. I knew it was going to be a struggle for him,
but I don't think I ever complained about his
grades. And he didn't flunk anything? No. No, he
didn't flunk anything. And he told me about
changing his major to marketing. Did he discuss
that with you? Yes. And you endorsed the...
The wives had talked about, you know, we need to
support our husbands. They've been through a war.
They've been, some of them, you know, had had a hard
life. They had to work when they were kids and all of
that. So we just figured that we talked about it. We
have to support them in whatever endeavor. I mean,
if they want to change their majors or maybe they
want to stay an extra year. so and uh just about
every one of the couples were first generation
college students all short of money uh some from
small towns but some from the city city almost all
were texans i yes i think so all of our neighbors i
think were from texas now We did have a neighbor way
down the street, and she and I became friends
because she was from Canada. And she was a little
bit, she dressed a little bit different than we
did. She spoke a little bit different, and she was
kind of chubby. And I don't know why she was
comfortable with me, but she'd come to the house
and visit with me. Now, she didn't socialize. And
even when her mother was visiting her here,
she would bring her mother and we'd visit. And I
wish I had kept their name, but they were there,
just lived one year, and they moved. But he had met
her in Canada when he was in the service.
And there weren't any special social events for
student wives? No. Well, there were some at the
YMCA that you could do, but we never did – I never did
go. down there, you could go there for, now we did
have, my Sunday school class had meetings at
night. Oh, okay. You know, and I'd go to those. The
WMU.